Propose DDR IP discovery considerations following WG feedback (#14)
boucadair/add-resolver-information: draft-ietf-add-resolver-info.md

   RR type and the QNAME of the domain name that is used to authenticate the
   DNS resolver (referred to as the Authentication Domain Name (ADN) in {{!RFC9463}}).

   Clients face a special circumstance when the Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa" is used to discover the encrypted

>    DNS server using the Discovery Using Resolver IP Address mechanism defined in {{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   DNS resolver when performing DDR discovery using resolver IP address defined in {{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}.
```

   By using the DNS server's domain name from the DDR SVCB response to issue the RESINFO query,
   a client accepts the risk that a resolver supports DDR

>    but does not support RESINFO. In this scenario, the server might pass the query upstream, and then the client can receive a positive RESINFO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   but does not support RESINFO. In this scenario, the resolver might pass the query upstream, and then the client can receive a positive RESINFO
```

   response either from a legitimate upstream DNS resolver or an attacker. While DNSSEC can be considered as a candidate mechanism

>    to protect against the attack, it is important to note that the name was received over plain-text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to protect against the attack, it is important to note that the name was received over unencrypted
```

>    DNS and that the RESINFO response can be both validly DNSSEC-signed and not signed by the name the original DDR redirection intended. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   DNS and that the RESINFO response can be both validly DNSSEC-signed and not signed by the name that the original DDR resolution intended. 
```

Reviewer 2: Added this change manually since it conflicted with another suggested edit that outdated this

>    To reduce the scope of such an attack, clients wishing to retrieve resolver information from resolvers discuvered using DDR's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To reduce the scope of such an attack, clients wishing to retrieve resolver information from resolvers discovered when performing DDR
```

Reviewer 2: Added this change manually since it conflicted with another suggested edit that outdated this

>    Discovery Using Resolver IP Address mechanism MUST ensure during the DDR handshake that the TLS certificate presented by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   discovery using resolver IP address ({{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}) MUST ensure during the DDR handshake that the TLS certificate presented by
```

>    the server is valid for the domain name in the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response, and if that succeeds, MAY choose to retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RR type and the QNAME set to the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the resolver is valid for the domain name in the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response, and if that succeeds, MAY choose to retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RR type and the QNAME set to the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response.
```

   RR type and the QNAME of the domain name that is used to authenticate the
   DNS resolver (referred to as the Authentication Domain Name (ADN) in {{!RFC9463}}).

   Clients face a special circumstance when the Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa" is used to discover the encrypted

>    DNS resolver when performing DDR discovery using resolver IP address defined in {{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   When clients use the Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa" with DDR to discover a designated
   encrypted resolver based on an IP address ({{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}), they need to handle RESINFO responses specially.
```

   By using the DNS server's domain name from the DDR SVCB response to issue the RESINFO query,
   a client accepts the risk that a resolver supports DDR
   but does not support RESINFO. In this scenario, the resolver might pass the query upstream, and then the client can receive a positive RESINFO
   response either from a legitimate upstream DNS resolver or an attacker.
   
   While DNSSEC can be considered as a candidate mechanism
   to protect against the attack, it is important to note that the name was received over unencrypted
   DNS and that the RESINFO response can be both validly DNSSEC-signed and not signed by the name that the original DDR resolution intended.
   To reduce the scope of such an attack, clients wishing to retrieve resolver information from resolvers discovered when performing DDR
   discovery using resolver IP address ({{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}) MUST ensure during the DDR handshake that the TLS certificate presented by

>    the resolver is valid for the domain name in the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response, and if that succeeds, MAY choose to retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RR type and the QNAME set to the TargetName in the DDR SVCB response.

Reviewer 3: Maybe say that it contains the name in the SAN list, not just that "it is valid for"?

Reviewer 2: fixed

#  Security Considerations

> DNS clients communicating with DNS servers discovered using DNR MUST employ one of the following measures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DNS clients communicating with DNS resolvers discovered using DNR MUST employ one of the following measures
```

to prevent DNS response forgery attacks:

1. Establish an authenticated secure connection to the DNS resolver.
2. Implement local DNSSEC validation ({{Section 10 of ?RFC8499}}) to verify the authenticity of the resolver information.

> DNS clients communicating with DNS servers discovered through DDR's Discovery Using Resolver IP Addresses mechanism defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DNS clients communicating with DNS resolvers discovered using DDR's discovery using resolver IP addresses (```

> in {{Section 4 of !RFC9462}} MUST perform the validation explained in {{retreive}} to limit the effectiveness of upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{Section 4 of !RFC9462}}) MUST perform the validation described in {{retreive}} to limit the effectiveness of upstream
```

#  Security Considerations

DNS clients communicating with DNS resolvers discovered using DNR MUST employ one of the following measures
to prevent DNS response forgery attacks:

1. Establish an authenticated secure connection to the DNS resolver.
2. Implement local DNSSEC validation ({{Section 10 of ?RFC8499}}) to verify the authenticity of the resolver information.

> DNS clients communicating with DNS resolvers discovered using DDR's discovery using resolver IP addresses (```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DNS clients communicating with DNS resolvers discovered using DDR's discovery using resolver IP addresses (
```

   Wicinski, and Steffen Nurpmeso for the discussion on the RR
   formatting rules.

>    Special thanks to Tommy Jensen for the careful and thoughtful Shepherd review.

Reviewer 3: 🤣
